Jenkins is a CICD tool (or) continous integration tool
---------------------------------------------------------
1. Create a jenkins instance with t3.small/20gb/defaultSG as of now
2. Login to the instance using public_ip in the superputty
3. Install jenkins using commands which can be found in "jenkins.io" go to three lines in top right
   corner you will find download option, and select Redhat/Fedora/almalinux/CentOS. Here you will find 
   commands Note that you are not installing in the laptop as a software, you are installing in the 
   server. So you need to install using commands only.
4. After installing "systemctl start jenkins" and "systemctl status jenkins" and "systemctl enable jenkins"
5. Now take the jenkins_ip (public) and paste in the url (jenkins port=8080) , when you do this you get 
   error that the network is not secured but you need to click on the "continue to site"
6. Just cat the path which is showing in the jenkins console and login 
7. Then install suggested plugins
8. Create user account
9. So jenkins setup is completed and start using it

Whatever we do in the jenkins we call it has a job, now click on new-item (nothing but creating a sample file as of now) select free-style project, free-style is nothing but everything you do it in UI, not only 
in jenkins initially we created resources in aws console that is also called free-style, later we used terraform,shellscript,ansible to create resources. Select "Execute shell" in build steps option, echo "hello-world" then apply and save. We are just telling jenkins to run this command using build button.

Creating resources in AWS (Amazon Web Services) can be done through the AWS Management Console (a graphical user interface) or by using scripting (often with tools like AWS CLI, AWS SDKs, or Infrastructure as Code tools like Terraform or AWS CloudFormation). Each method has its advantages and disadvantages:

Advantages of AWS Management Console
-------------------------------------
1. User-Friendly Interface:- This method will make it easier for beginners to navigate and manage AWS 
   resources.
2. Immediate Feedback:- Changes can be made and results viewed immediately, helping users understand how 
   services interact in real-time.
3. No Setup Required:- Users can start using the console without any installation of tools or writing 
   scripts.
4. Visual Representation:- The console offers visualizations and dashboards that help users 
   monitor resource status and usage effectively.
5. Access to All Features:- Some advanced features and settings may be more accessible or visible in the 
   console than through scripts.

Disadvantages of AWS Management Console
----------------------------------------
1. Manual Process:- Creating resources manually can be time-consuming and error-prone, especially for 
   large-scale deployments.
2. Lack of Version Control:- Changes made in the console are not easily tracked or version-controlled, 
   making it challenging to audit changes.
3. Limited Automation:- Automation options are limited; while some actions can be automated with 
   AWS Lambda, they may not be as comprehensive as script-based solutions.
4. Inconsistent Environments:- Replicating the same setup across multiple environments 
   (e.g., dev, test, prod) can be challenging and lead to inconsistencies.

Advantages of Scripting (e.g., AWS CLI, SDKs)
------------------------------------------------
1. Automation and Efficiency: Scripts can automate the creation and management of resources, 
   which increases efficiency, especially for repetitive tasks.
2. Version Control: Scripts can be stored in version control systems (e.g., Git), allowing for better 
   tracking of changes and collaboration.
3. Consistent Deployments: Scripting ensures consistent environments across different deployments, 
   minimizing human error.
4. Infrastructure as Code: Using tools like AWS CloudFormation allows you to define your infrastructure 
   as code, enabling easy replication and modifications.
5. Cost-Effective: Automated scripts can reduce the time and resources needed for manual management, 
   potentially lowering operational costs.

Disadvantages of Scripting
-----------------------------
1. Learning Curve:- Users need to learn scripting languages and AWS-specific command syntax, which may be 
   daunting for beginners.
2. Debugging Complexity:- Scripting errors can sometimes be difficult to troubleshoot, especially for 
   complex setups.
3. Setup Time:- Initial setup for scripts may require more time and effort compared to a 
   quick console setup.
4. Dependency Management:- Managing dependencies and ensuring that scripts run in the correct environment 
   can add complexity.

Conclusion
------------
The choice between using the AWS Management Console and scripting largely depends on your specific use case, team expertise, and the scale of your operations. For smaller projects or initial explorations, the console might be more suitable, while larger or more complex projects often benefit from the automation and consistency offered by scripting.
 
1. Free-style
----------------
Free-style job is no one is preferring now, it is very easy to do everything from the console, anybody can do the changes and we dont know who did what? and it is very difficult to rollback to the original version, thats why everybody is moved to pipeline, So now we should understand jenkins pipeline just search "jenkins pipelines" click on the first link and know about the pipeline syntax

2. Pipelines
---------------
Now create a new job with "pipeline" and use the default script of hello-world in the "pipeline script" and you can add any number of stages, But we prefer "pipeline script from SCM" because anybody can change the code from the pipeline script also, Our source code(SCM) is git. If we put this pipeline in git then jenkins will take that code from the git and run it this is called as "gitOps" Note:- Put the https URL of jenkins file from the git in the jenkins server

Raw syntax of the pipeline(interview question)
-------------------------------------------------
pipeline {
    agent any
	
	stages {
	   stage('Build') {
	      steps {
		    echo 'Building..'
		  }
	   }
	   stage('Test') {
	      steps {
		    echo 'Testing..'
		  }
	   }
	   stage('Deploy') {
	      steps {
		     echo 'Deploying..'
		  }
	   }
	}
        post { 
        always { 
            echo 'I will always say Hello again!'
        }
        failure { 
            echo 'this runs when pipeline is failed, used generally to send some alerts'
        }
        success{
            echo 'I will say Hello when pipeline is success'
        }
    }
}

What is agent ?
----------------
Take the example of 1 person can do ---> 1 acre of land ; If 100 acres ---> need lot of resources then
Owner recruit ---> employes resources ---> and distribute the work, similary to the Master-agent(node) also

If you have single project you can use single sever(jenkins-master), but if you have multiple projects one single jenkins server cannot handle the load, So we have AGENT(which act like a slave) "MASTER-AGENT". So
create one more instance for agent and install java, same command which is used in the jenkins server, It is not mandatory to install jenkins in nodes, we need to install only java packages. Now configure this agent in jenkins server by going to the "manage jenkins option/nodes/new-node(keep name as per your wish)/generally jenkins configuration will be saved in "cd /var/lib/jenkins/" so in the sameway you need to create a directory while creating agent "/var/jenkins-agent" here CentOs doesn't have sudo access in this path. Number of executors here we put 3 as per the instance.

How do you configure master and agent architecture ?
-----------------------------------------------------
We have multiple agents then we go to the manage jenkins there is an option for nodes, while creating nodes we have few parameters like Name,Description,Number of executors,remote root directory(In this section we need to give "/home/centos/jenkins-agent(you can keep any name)" because centOS doesn't have sudo access in "/var/jenkins" path, it has only in the home folder "/home/centos/jenkins-agent"

Two types of work flow
-----------------------
1. Master asking agent to work ---> "launch agents via ssh" master will connect to agent through ssh
2. Employee coming to master and asking for work

Host(agent) ---> We can use both public_ip and private_ip but siva used private_ip because it is in the same network. Configure credentials also ---> ID = ssh-auth(you can keep any name) ; 
hostkeyverification strategy --> Put "non-verifying verification strategy" because it will ask for prompt yes (or) no while creating. We can add as many agents we want like 1 agent is for java, 1 agent is for .net, 1 agent is for python, How many agents you have used ? (interview question). We created 5 agents because we are supporting multiple programming languages like python,java,.net and nodejs, so for each language we have 2-2 agents. Master should must have jenkins and java but where as in nodes java is mandatory, even if there is no jenkins in nodes no problem. Check "log" option, if nodes are online (or) not. To cross check in the server wether you have created the jenkins agent (or) not by "ls -l"

Post section
-------------
We have lot of different conditions we can use from the document which is present in the internet like post,environments,triggers,etc.

Environements
--------------
We can use anywhere in the script like for example write a shell-script in that we can use environment, or if you just write "env" in the script you will get all environments and we can select and use as per our requirement

Triggers
---------
Webhook ---> Connecting from one to another, for example system-1 should send information to another systems that means whenever there is an event in the system-1 it should inform to another system this is nothing but "event based communication" in this If developer pushes the code to the git then we want pipeline to run automatically 

When event is in git ----> Jenkins should get the information and github should get the information of jenkins. So for that create "jenkins-github" integration
1. Event will come in git and git should have jenkins info, so go to the webhook in the "jenkins-folder" 
   github/add webhook/payload URL must be "http://18.343.33.34:8080/github-webhook/
2. Select application_json
3. Similarly in the jenkins server also we need to select "github hook trigger for GITscm polling" 
   in build trigger options

Now try something to add and push, wether it is working or not
